Tell me about a time when you took ownership of a project. Why did you do this? What was the result of you taking the challenge? What could have happened if you did not take ownership?
Think about an instance in which you came up with a project idea that was implemented primarily because of your efforts. What was it about? What was its outcome? What was your role?
Describe a time when you made a suggestion to improve something on the project that you were working on.
Give me an example of the project or initiative that you started on your own. It can be a non-business one. What prompted you to get started?
Describe a situation in which you met a major obstacle in order to complete a project. How did you deal with it? What steps did you take?
Tell me about a time you had to work on several projects at once. How did you handle that?
Describe a situation in which you have experienced a significant project change that you weren’t expecting. What was it? How did that impact you, and how did you adapt to this change? How did you remain productive throughout the project?
Describe a situation in which you had to adjust to changes over which you had no control. How did you do this?
I’d be interested in hearing about a miscommunication you had with your supervisor. How did you solve it? What was the reason for that? How did you deal with that situation?
Tell me about an instance when you had to communicate a really bad piece of news to your supervisor or team members. How did you handle it? What was the outcome?
Provide an example of a time when you didn’t agree with other programmers. Did you stand up for something that you believed was right?
Tell me about a time when you had to present a complex programming problem to a person that didn’t understand technical jargon. How did you ensure that the other person understood you?
Describe a situation in which you felt you had not communicated well enough. What did you do? How did you handle it?
Tell me about a situation that you had to speak up and be assertive in order to get a point across that was important for you.
Tell me about a time when you had a disagreement with another programmer. How did you handle the situation? Were you able to reach a mutually beneficial resolution to that conflict? If not, why were you and your co-worker unable to reach a mutually beneficial resolution? If you knew then what you know now, what would you have done differently to either prevent the conflict, or to resolve it?
Tell me about a time when you had to work with a difficult person to accomplish a goal. What was the biggest challenge? How did you handle it?
Has there been a time on a project when you disagreed with someone? What did you do about it?
Tell me about when you had to deal with conflict within your team. How was the conflict solved? How did you handle that? How would you deal with it now?
Give me an example of a time you had to take a creative and unusual approach to solve a coding problem. How did this idea come to your mind? Why do you think it was unusual?
Give me an example of a time when you were faced with a complex project related matter and you could not decide on the best way to deal with it. What did you do? How did you go about making the decision – lead me through your decision process? If you could make the decision once again, would you change anything
Think about an instance in which you made a decision at work that was unpopular. How did you handle it?
Give me an example of a project that completely failed. Why do you think it was a failure? Could there be anything done differently in order to turn it into success?
Describe a situation in which you worked diligently on a project and it did not produce the desired results. Why didn’t you get the desired results? What did you learn from the experience?
Think about a situation when you made a poor decision or did something that just didn’t turn outright. What happened?
Provide an example of an important project goal you reached and how you achieved it.
Think about an instance in which you worked on and achieved multiple project goals.
Describe a circumstance when you were not able to achieve a project goal that was set by your supervisor. How did you handle this situation? What was the outcome?
Think about an instance in which you had to depend on others to help you achieve a project goal. How did you feel?
Tell me about a recent situation at work in which you were able to convince management to accept one of your ideas.
Describe a situation in which you experienced difficulty in getting others to accept your ideas? What was your approach? How did this work? Were you able to successfully persuade someone to see things your way?
Have you ever had to “sell” an idea to your project team? How did you do it? Did they “buy” it?
Tell me about a situation when you were responsible for project planning. Did everything go according to your plan? If not, then why and what kind of counteractions did you have to take?
Tell me about a situation when you were responsible for project planning. Did everything go according to your plan? If not, then why and what kind of counteractions did you have to take?
Tell me about a situation when you made a mistake at work. What happened exactly and how did you deal with it? What steps did you take to improve the situation?
What is the biggest problem you have faced on projects so far and how did you solve it? What made the problem difficult to resolve? What was the result? Would you do anything differently now?
Give me an example of a time when you noticed a small problem before it turned into a major one. Did you take the initiative to correct it? What kind of preventive measure did you undertake?
Walk me through a difficult/complex problem/project you encountered. How did you decide what to do first? What information did you need? What obstacles did you face? Which ones were you able to overcome? Did you have to ask for help?
Tell me about a time when you worked with someone who was not completing his or her share of the work. How did you handle the situation? Did you discuss your concern with your coworker? With your manager? If yes, how did your coworker respond to your concern? What was your manager’s response?
Describe a situation where you had to work in a team that didn’t get on very well. What happened? What did you do and what role did you take? How did the situation evolve?
Describe a team experience you found disappointing. What would you have done differently to prevent this?
Give me an example of working cooperatively as a team member to accomplish an important goal. What was the objective? To what extent did you interact with other project members?
Tell me about the most difficult situation you have had when leading a team. What happened and how did you handle it? Were you successful? What was the most important thing you did?
Describe a situation when you worked effectively under pressure. How did you feel when working under pressure? What was going on, and how did you get through it?
Tell me about a situation when you had problems working under pressure. How did you handle that situation? Did you decide to ask for support? How and when did you ask for help?
Give me a recent example of a stressful situation on the job. What happened? How did you handle it?
If there was one obstacle or issue that you can foresee that might prevent you from hitting a deadline, what would it be?
What was the biggest takeaway from your current job that you’ll carry with you throughout your career?
Tell us about how you’ve dealt with unexpected changes to deadlines or project scope.
Tell me about a time when you solved a conflict at work.
Describe the project that you had the most trouble with. What would you have done differently?
How do you defend your judgement to team members and stakeholders?
Which of the company values/principles is your greatest strength?
Talk about a time where you had to make a decision in a lot of ambiguity
Tell me about a time you went beyond what was expected.
Give examples of situations where you have shown effectiveness, empathy, adaptability, & humbleness.
How would you handle a situation in which you were getting a lot of negative feedback in the middle of a presentation?
If you know there are 2 improvements that need to be made, but can only make 1, how would you prioritize?
Talk about a time you failed and how you handled it.
How do you keep your team engaged?
Give an example of how you set goals and achieve then. How do you come up with ideas?
Share an example of how you were able to motivate employees or co-workers.
Do you prefer to work with a team or on your own?
Why do you want to change jobs? Why now?
Talk about your approach to solving difficult problems
Describe a situation where you had to lead a group that had difficulties. How did you handle it?
What would you do if you don’t know the solution for a certain problem and nobody can help at the moment?
What did you do when the requirement from the stakeholder is vague
How do you make a case for your vision and opinion?
How do you stay organized?
How do you experiment?
Do you find that you get overwhelmed often at work? How do you combat that?
How do you move forward with stakeholders want to go in one direction but you don’t think that’s the right way to do it?
Give an example of an occasion when you used logic to solve a problem.
Who has influenced you in your career?
What advice would you give someone younger than you who is trying to come up in the field.
What do you do when you are procrastinating?
What are your hobbies?
What do you like most about the culture memo? How do you fit in with our culture?
How do you work with conflicting priorities?
Have you handled a difficult situation with a coworker? How?
How do you collaborate with others?
What websites do you spend a lot of time on?
How do you set goals?
What are your biggest weaknesses and strengths?
Talk about a time that you failed.
How do you set people up for success?
Let’s say a project you are working on is on hold, and your PM has not assigned another project for you to do in the meantime. How would you spend your time while waiting for the project to pick up again?
Talk about a time when you had multiple requests from different people in the company. How did you handle them?                                                                                                                                                         What do you think is the most important responsibility that the team has inside the company’s mission?
What do you do if you disagree with your boss?
Talk about a time in your career where you made a mistake. What was the mistake, what were the results, and what did you learn from the experience?
Q1: How do you spend your time outside work? ⭐
Q2: Tell me the story of how you became who you are today and what made you apply to X. ⭐
Q3: Why do you want to work for X company? ⭐
Q4: Why do you want to leave your current/last company? ⭐
Q5: A hammer and a nail cost $1.10 together, and the hammer costs one dollar more than the nail. How much does the nail cost? ⭐
Q6: How large was the last team that you worked on? ⭐
Q7: Do you plan to advance your education while working here? ⭐
Q8: What are your hobbies? ⭐
Q9: Why are you interested in this opportunity? ⭐
Q10: What are you looking for in your next role? ⭐
Q11: Tell me about your last project - what worked and what didn’t? ⭐⭐
Q12: Why do you want to come work at a startup, as opposed to an established company? ⭐⭐
Q13: If someone has a different viewpoint to do a project like different programming language, how would handle this situation? ⭐⭐
Q14: Do prefer to work at a single company for a long time or would you rather take a job that suits you at the time? ⭐⭐
Q15: Can you give an example of a career goal that you set and how you went about meeting it? ⭐⭐
Q16: How quickly can you learn to use a new technology? ⭐⭐
Q17: What does "belong anywhere" mean to you? ⭐⭐
Q18: Can you list any deal breakers that would deter you from working for an employer? ⭐⭐
Q19: What was the most fun thing you did recently? ⭐⭐
Q20: Why do people resist change? ⭐⭐
Q21: Have you worked in a distributed team before? What challenges did you face? ⭐⭐
Q22: What are your personal goals? ⭐⭐
Q23: Can you tell me what part of your resume you are most proud of? ⭐⭐
Q24: What are you excited about? ⭐⭐
Q25: Why do you think you’re a good fit for this company? ⭐⭐
Q26: What would your previous boss say your biggest strength was? ⭐⭐
Q27: How do you stay up to date with the latest technologies? ⭐⭐
Q28: What is the hardest technical problem you have run into? ⭐⭐
Q29: State an experience about how you solved a technical problem. Be specific about the diagnosis and process. ⭐⭐
Q30: What is your biggest strength and area of growth? ⭐⭐
Q31: What project are you currently working on? ⭐⭐
Q32: What have you built as your side project? ⭐⭐
Q33: What’s are your favorite five apps? ⭐⭐
Q34: Share one of your trips with us. ⭐⭐
Q35: How do you deal with difficult coworkers? Think about specific instances where you resolved conflicts. ⭐⭐
Q36: Are you more interested in a career that offers great compensation, flexibility or the chance to do something meaningful? ⭐⭐
Q37: What large problems in the world would you solve today? ⭐⭐⭐
Q38: What does it mean to be a "Professional Developer"? ⭐⭐⭐
Q39: What are your three strengths and three weaknesses? ⭐⭐⭐
Q40: Would you prefer working on Green Field or Brown Field projects? Why? ⭐⭐⭐
Q41: Describe company X to your grandmother. ⭐⭐⭐
Q42: Tell me a time when you predicted something. ⭐⭐⭐
Q43: Where do you want to be in five years? ⭐⭐⭐
Q44: Tell me about a challenge you faced recently in your role. How did you tackle it? What was the outcome? ⭐⭐⭐
Q45: Explain me your toughest project and the working architecture. ⭐⭐⭐
Q46: What makes good code good? ⭐⭐⭐
Q47: What can you actually do for us? ⭐⭐⭐
Q48: Tell me about a time your work responsibilities got a little overwhelming. What did you do? ⭐⭐⭐
Q49: What frustrates you? ⭐⭐⭐
Q50: Tell me a situation where you would have done something differently from what you actually did. ⭐⭐⭐
Q51: In my professional experience have you worked on something without getting approval from your manager? ⭐⭐⭐
Q52: Tell me about a time when you had a conflict with a co-worker. ⭐⭐⭐
Q53: Tell me about a time in which you had a conflict and needed to influence somebody else. ⭐⭐⭐
Q54: If you were to open your own business in the future, what kind of business will you open and why? ⭐⭐⭐
Q55: What’s the best advice you’ve recently received? ⭐⭐⭐
Q56: What is the best gift you have ever given or received? ⭐⭐⭐
Q57: Would you rather be good at a lot of things or an expert at one thing? ⭐⭐⭐
Q58: What is something that you don't want from your last internship/job? ⭐⭐⭐
Q59: If you had an unlimited budget and you could go somewhere, where would you go? ⭐⭐⭐
Q60: Tell me something you are learning right now. ⭐⭐⭐
Q61: How did you win over the difficult employees? ⭐⭐⭐
Q62: What is something that you had to push for in your previous projects? ⭐⭐⭐
Q63: What does your best day of work look like? ⭐⭐⭐
Q64: What’s the most difficult part of being a member of a team for you? ⭐⭐⭐
Q65: Can you explain this gap in your resume? ⭐⭐⭐
Q66: Do you prefer to work in a team or individually? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q67: What is the most challenging aspect of your current project? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q68: Imagine it is your first day here at the company. What do you want to work on? What features would you improve on? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q69: What books have inspired you in you live? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q70: How do you respond to constructive criticism? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q71: If you had an unlimited budget and you could buy one gift for one person, what would you buy and who would you buy it for? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q72: How do you tackle challenges? Name a difficult challenge you faced while working on a project, how you overcame it, and what you learned. ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q73: What is something new that you can teach your interviewer in a few minutes? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q74: What was the most difficult bug that you fixed in the past 6 months? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q75: Talk about a project you are most passionate about, or one where you did your best work. ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q76: Are you comfortable assuming responsibilities outside your job description? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q77: What are some of the new ideas you would implement in this position? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q78: Tell me something about yourself and why you'd be a good fit for the position. ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q79: How do you deal with a failed deadline? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q80: What is the most exceedingly bad misstep you've made at any point? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q81: Apart from technical knowledge, what did you learn during your work at Y? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q82: Explain streaming and how you would implement it. ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q83: What are some of the best and worst things about your current company? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q84: Tell me about a time you needed information from someone who wasn't responsive. What did you do? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q85: What is the biggest mistake that you made in your last position? ⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q86: Tell me about a time you had to give someone terrible news. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q87: Who do you look to as a role model? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q88: What is your superpower? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q89: In one word, describe yourself. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q90: Is developing software an art, a craftsmanship or an engineering endeavour? Your opinion. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q91: What are the most interesting projects you have worked on and how might they be relevant to this company's environment? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q92: What is the most constructive feedback you have received in your career? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q93: What is something you had to persevere at for multiple months? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q94: Tell me about a time you had a disagreement with your manager. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q95: What is something 90% of people disagree with you about? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q96: Tell me about a time you were uncomfortable and how you dealt with it. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q97: Imagine there's a perfect clone of yourself. Imagine that that clone is your boss. Would you like to work for him/her? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q98: Interview me ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q99: Why are Quora's answers better than Yahoo Answers' ones? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q100: Let's play a game: defend Cobol against modern languages, and try to find as many reasonable arguments as you can. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q101: Where will you be in 10 years? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q102: You are my boss and I'm fired. Inform me. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q103: I want to refactor a legacy system. You want to rewrite it from scratch. Argument. Then, switch our roles. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q104: Your boss asks you to lie to the Company. What's your reaction? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q105: If you could travel back in time, which advice would you give to your younger self? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q106: What would happen if you put a mirror in a scanner? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q107: As a software engineer you want both to innovate and to be predictable. How those 2 goals can coexist in the same strategy? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q108: What risks do you feel you should never take? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q109: What is broken around you? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q110: If you were given $1 million dollars every year for the rest of your life, what would you do? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q111: Name a situation where you were impressed by a company's customer service. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Q112: What is the craziest thing you’ve ever done? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

